all right
okay thanks for having me
so a couple months ago Jason emailed me
and asked me if I could speak it's aster
and I said yes absolutely what do you
want me to talk about and he said you
know tell him that all the mistakes
you've made and I said okay I don't know
if we have enough time for that but I'll
try so he came up with this topic of how
we ended up going from 0 to 10 million
in revenue in less than 20 months and
the 10 mistakes that we made along the
way and thinking about this I was
thinking about the the audience here and
so hopefully I've got this right so
quick show of hands how many of you are
founders oh my god all right how many of
you were early-stage founders okay about
half all right okay good I think I got
this right because I was thinking you
know what would I have wanted to know
you know five years ago ten years ago
that would be helpful and so that's how
I came up with this presentation and
we're not going to talk about SAS unit
economics or anything like that
this is gonna be founder stuff and
hopefully that's going to be helpful for
you guys let's see here okay so a little
bit about me
logical is is it's not like New Relic it
was just up here I've been making
mistakes for 15 years is that coming up
there we go okay going on 15 years of
mistakes here we are not yet a publicly
traded company because we weren't always
a SAS company we were a services company
started in Washington DC we wrote
software and the service that we did is
not too dissimilar to what we do today
basically big banks and law firms and
government agencies would ship us data
for these large litigations
investigations we would process it and
we would ship it back and we would
charge them lots of money for that
hundreds of thousands of dollars
millions of dollars it was a great
business we made a lot of money and so
naturally we decided to blow it up and
build a SAS business no I am NOT a
lawyer but I do make legal Tech's so
during the recession we had this idea of
what if we could automate this whole
service and democratize it so anybody
could do this and we decided to do that
so we basically killed the services
business and built a software the
service business it took us a long time
I thought it would be done in two years
it took us four years and we've been a
SAS company ever since Jason Lumpkin so
this picture that you see here that's
Jason and I me pre-beard I normally
don't have a beer this is a revenue
milestone beer it's gonna come off once
we hit the revenue number which
hopefully is going to be tomorrow we're
all impatient about that much so my
seven-year-old daughter chagrin she
can't stand it because I give her a kiss
goodnight and and she tells me that when
I'm sleeping she's gonna shave it off
which is terrifying if you think about
that so I'm sleeping with one eye open
these days but that's Jason and I Jason
I've known Jason for what seems like 50
years in SAS world because it all
compounds and I've known him for about
five years in the real world he led our
series seed back when sastra was just a
tiny group of people not this enormous
amazing a community that is today and he
was on our board for for many years and
he's a close friend and an awesome
investor hopefully you guys get him as
an investor one day he is fantastic
especially for early-stage ok so the way
I constructed this slide of these slides
around themes so now we're gonna talk
about selling or and talk about hiring
firing culturing if that's a word and
and there's little mistakes in here and
hopefully tips that you guys can take
away you know as you as you're building
your business so let's first talk about
selling because that's what we're all
trying to do we're all trying to sell
more faster my the biggest learning here
and some of this is going to be somewhat
somewhat obvious you know generic advice
but for me it wasn't this way and sell
the way your customers want to buy it
sounds obvious but in hindsight it
actually is not obvious I think too
often we put our business small or our
own personal goals ahead of what the
customer actually wants to do and I'm
going to circle back to this at the end
because that's ultimately I think that
the biggest learning here
let's talk about pricing I've made a ton
of pricing mistakes from packaging the
software incorrectly to pricing too much
or too little I think a lot of founders
struggle with this you know it's often
cited that founders were under priced
their products I think that's very true
because it's it's easy for us to easier
for us to build these things and hard to
understand the value that you create for
the customer and how to capture that
value there's a really simple way of
thinking about this that I found to be
really useful it is to find out what
your ROI is in terms of either time
saved or money save something like that
and keep it around 10x doesn't need to
be much more than that if it's way more
than that maybe you're actually leaving
money on the table so as an example you
know if if you're trying to get somebody
to switch from something old to
something new and today it costs a
hundred thousand dollars you know maybe
your product should be more like ten
thousand dollars it makes the switching
costs which is a very real thing a lot
easier for customers to process loss
aversion is a very real thing that I
think a lot of us face in the especially
in the b2b world where you're trying to
get people to switch for something old
that was built in 80s 90s or early 2000s
is something new more modern in sass so
aim for that that 10x ratio and the
other thing that I wish I had done early
on and we've only just now started to do
this for about the past few years is to
template your sales process early on
this slide over here that screenshot is
from David's Cox matrix Academy I highly
recommend you go to his blog for
entrepreneurs calm and devour every
single piece of content it is amazing
but this is this is the one slide that
or this picture that I wish we had
printed on every wall and the company
because you know I think as founders we
get really impatient and you're gonna
want to jump ahead in these steps and if
you do that and say as an example you
don't have a repeatable sales process
just yet and you start hiring more
salespeople it never goes well
I've made that mistake and I recommend
you guys don't do that and you can you
can avoid that by following this this
basic process and this is totally ripped
off from his stuff it's not mine
but think about this you have to prove
it out yourself
as a founder then you start you know
hiring more people to make that
repeatable and you want to template that
process as early on as possible another
way to think about this is to treat your
SAS business like a franchise really
good book that I read early on I was
recommended to me by another
entrepreneur was the e-myth revisited
some of you may have read that book that
the basic premise of that book is when
you're building your SAS business think
of it like a franchise franchise they're
some of the best business models in the
world
it's like software you just copy and
paste it you know all around the world
and you can do that same exact thing
with your SAS business ok more on
selling there's a lot more on selling is
again I think that's what we're all at
the top of mind here like how can we
sell more I made this mistake early on
you know I think a lot of us in the b2b
space especially you probably have a
product that can solve multiple use
cases and that's attractive because you
know when you're pitching investors like
oh well we can try this and then we can
move into this and we can do that just
do one find the one that is so
incredibly valuable to the customer and
nail that then go find ten to a hundred
prospects that you think have that same
use case fit if you will this is not so
much about product market fit at think
of that stage and see if you can solve
that problem for them as well and make
that make that repeatable this is
something that I think a lot of us are
probably doing today either
intentionally or unintentionally and
that is getting your your successful
customers to write reviews for your
service online right well how do you how
do you do that what we've done we've
automated it now whenever somebody gives
us a score of a nine or ten in our NPS
and we wrote just a little widget that
comes into the application the next day
they get an email from our marketing
team that says hey you know awesome
you're enjoying the service would you
please go write a review for us on
kaptara
G to crowd software advice and we offer
up a $25 gift certificate for that it's
an easy hack to do my son does this with
his excuse me with his pet sitting
business when he's 12 years old and
after he closes the customer and the
owners come home he asked them you know
how did I do scale one
ten and if they say nine or ten he says
please please write a review for me on
next door and he gets a lot of business
that way and you guys can do the exact
same thing if you follow that that
process of use case
so once you've nailed that use case then
go try another one my business is doing
this exact same thing right now we got
early traction with a new use case for
our products which by the way is a
product that you probably haven't heard
of because we are not you guys are not
our customers and hopefully you never
have to use our product it's for
Discovery investigations litigations
those types of things
if you've read much about the Muller
hack that just happened where they got
all these emails that's the area that
that logical plays in or you might have
heard of the Scott Pruett case with him
getting ousted from discovering all
those emails
the Sierra Club in the New York Times
use logical to to do that type of work
so find those use cases and then rinse
repeat on those as much as you possibly
can okay last one on selling early on we
did not have a pitch deck some of you
probably have pitch decks and you
probably change them up a lot I know I
know I do from time to time but I didn't
have a pitch deck early on I think that
was a mistake and the reason why the
pitch deck exists is you're trying to
tell a story you know you want to go
right into the product you want to show
the customer like all these amazing
things that you can do for them but they
don't have the context of why you
created this thing to begin with you
know what is it that got you to come up
with this idea like what's getting you
out of bed in the morning what is the
problem in the world that you see that
only your product can help solve for
them so you need a pitch deck to do that
and there's a really simple way of
constructing these pitch decks it's it
should not be about you number one and
that's the tendency like when I first
started making pitch decks I would put
up the big logo slide from the very
beginning like look at all our amazing
customers no one cares about that you
know what they care about is do you
understand the problem that they have
which is the status quo so start there
like what is the status quo and then
what happens to the people that continue
on the status quo if they don't do
anything right and then what happens to
the people when they do do something
what's that promise land
they and that's the story that you need
to paint that your product can only
solve for them there's some really great
resources online that you can go to for
that like Andy Raskin has written some
really good blog posts around this but
that's why the way you want to construct
your deck so think of it as if you were
to outline it you know something about
them right people love to talk about
themselves you know put some research
into you who your customers are let them
know that you've done that a little bit
about you then the problem then go into
demo write pretty pretty simple process
but I think two founders it can not be
so obvious um the second thing about
pitch decks is we want to keep this
really short you don't want to moan on
and on oh no no no right like I'm gonna
be doing it according to one a bit but
you want to keep it really short and and
try and keep that under five minutes and
that's a challenge especially as you're
templating your process early on but you
can do it and then once you find
something that's working really well
you're going to know it because and this
usually happens on the status-quo side
when you're showing the customer like
hey I understand your problem they will
tell you that's right there's a really
great book called never split the
difference by Chris boss he's a famous
negotiator I recommend you read that and
this is one of the the tips from his
book and I've seen this time and time
again you'll hear some sort of flavor of
this as you're giving your deck like oh
that's right you understand me and
you're building trust when you do that
so it's a small thing so when you're
delivering those decks think about that
and if you hear that you know you've got
something right and until you hear that
to keep iterating on that deck and it'll
get better over time okay switching
gears here let's talk about hiring
product is is one thing hiring is a
whole nother thing right you can build
the the best product in the world but if
you don't hire the right people at the
right time you probably aren't going to
build a really great business
and I think all of us in this room
suffer from some form of imposter
syndrome
at some time like you know can't believe
you're running this company that kind of
thing I will tell you this like you are
much better than you you realize and
don't take that for granted
keep the reality distortion fields to a
minimum of course but just just believe
in yourself when you're you know in
these tough situations that said higher
better than you you know you want to get
somebody that's another level or two
beyond where you want to be not too far
beyond you know you don't want to go
hire some huge CRO too early in your
company most likely and maybe you need a
Sales Manager to help those early reps
get to scale faster and when you bring
on executives especially like we all
have to hire executives the tendency is
to think that they're just going to
sprinkle magical fairy dust on things
and make everything better and sometimes
that happens but there's a lot of
knowledge transfer that needs to occur
you know a lot about your business much
more than they will ever know and you
need to transfer that knowledge with
them and they're gonna transfer whatever
they know into your head so don't give
them too much rope too soon you don't
let them hang themselves and a way to to
solve that that that I've done at least
since it's worked is you you block out a
conference room or whatever room for the
first 90 days and you guys you all sit
in the same room together and you're
gonna know within that first 90 days if
this person is the right person for this
job and and that's a good hack to do
that so more on hiring
okay I've made this mistake a lot where
you've hired just based on man this
person is really cool really awesome I
get along with them I could get beers
with them don't do that that's like the
culture side of hiring but hiring is
really more more about confidence you
know can this person do the job that you
need them to do plain and simple like
culture is number one and I have a
structure that I use and teach to to my
team whenever they're hiring called the
three C's they have to pass the culture
fit and culture fit is really simple
it's what what are your core values what
are the behaviors that represent your
people to be true like don't just make
them up or steal them from some other
company and you know design questions
around that I'll get some more of that
in a bit and then can they do the job
competence wise so if somebody fails the
culture fit test then forget about it
it's never gonna work ever I've tried
that I've done that before where I've
hired somebody who is really smart and
you get a competent a competent jerk it
doesn't work so try and get the culture
fit nailed down then competence fit then
compensation fit and do that in the
first call
don't waste anybody's time you know
bringing somebody in who you think is
really cool but can't actually do the
job because you didn't assess competence
fit and maybe it's too expensive
to actually join your company you can
get all this done in your first phone
screen trust me if you design this the
right way and you will save so much time
doing interviews so don't trust your gut
so how do you how do you avoid the the
problem with your gut
sometimes your gut will be right but
more often than not you said sanity
check that with data one of the things
that we've done that's worked remarkably
well and we didn't do this in the
beginning we've made tons of hiring
mistakes I mean I've been doing this for
15 years I've hired and fired a lot of
people is to write down the objectives
of the job seems pretty simple right
some jobs this is easier than others
like sales pretty basic like if you have
a quota that you need somebody to hit
within a certain amount of time that is
an objective you write that down and
that's part of the job ad so people know
what they're walking into
what do you expect on the sales cycle
what do you expect on
our daily metrics you know what do you
want these people to be doing day in and
day out you got to be careful here
because you don't want to be too rigid
especially early on but you should be
clear about the objectives of the job
you can do this with everything customer
success marketing do you how many leads
do you need them to generate so it's not
a surprise you know when you bring these
people in and like oh yeah well no you
have to sell a million dollars I didn't
like I've never done that before so
write down the objectives there's a
really good book I read a lot primarily
business books there's a really good
book called whoo that has a framework
that I recommend called the scorecard
and it Maps well to this you you you
write down your ten primary criteria for
every single job if you have uh if you
have somebody in your organization that
wants to hire somebody today you make
them go through this process right
they're gonna want to hire ASAP because
there's a burning fire somewhere but
make them go through this process of
defining who this person is what the
what the objectives are for the job and
and follow a rigid hiring process and
you will hire better this is another
good hack that we've done that I wish I
had done early on and it saves so much
time it's old-school but it works so
after that first phone screen when
you're doing the culture fit you're
doing the competence fit and you're
doing the compensation fit now some
people in here and probably an HR in
California you can't ask people how much
they make today but you can ask around
at comp expectations but you have to be
able to respond back with what you pay
for this job right that's just the rule
of the land in California some of you
that are not in California probably have
different rules so check with your HR
people about that but once you've
assessed the three C's and you're
checking the Box like okay this person
is within our price range they seem
smart they think seem like a good
culture fit go old school and send them
a survey and hopefully your survey is
mapped to culture and competence this is
how we do it part 1 and part 2 it's a
Google document there's ten questions
for culture that map to our core values
and the behaviors that that we want and
people that work at our company and then
there's ten questions that map to the
job and those are always specific to the
job
and you you send that to them as an
attachment weird document or share a
mountain with a Google document and you
ask them hey could you complete this 24
to 48 hours before your next phone
screen that's it
that's like test number one you would be
shocked how many people who you think
are amazing can't complete that simple
data line like really amazing seemingly
qualified people just don't do that and
that's an instant way or not in same way
but it's a very quick way of
disqualifying somebody because if they
can't fill out a survey that takes them
1 to 2 hours of their time do you really
want to spend the next thousand hours
with them probably not it's really easy
way of assessing it the second thing
that you can do with the culture and
competence survey is you use this for
the rest of the interview process so you
share this with the hiring team and as
you're going through the hiring process
maybe you do panel reviews those are a
really good thing to do to save people
time they're using this content to ask
questions like ok here it says that you
did X on Y you know tell me more about
that and it'll save you a ton of time ok
flipside of hiring is hiring
we all hate to to make fires most likely
unless you're this guy and so the one
thing that I'll say about firing and
it's going on 15 years now the first 90
days of an employee's journey almost
looks the next 900 days almost exactly
the same very rarely do you see somebody
that comes down in 90 days is remarkably
different than they were in 900 days now
obviously they're gonna learn new skills
along this time but you will know if
this person is really a culture fit
within 90 days can they actually do the
job within 90 days and back to what I
was mentioning when the culture surveys
and those things they'll prevent those
things from happening and one of the
things that we've done to eliminate the
the problem of hiring somebody and being
a miss hire is we have a mutual 90 day
agreement so if you think about it from
the employees perspective you know
they've they're taking a gamble on
joining your company right this is part
of their career and they don't know yet
if it's going to be the right decision
the same thing for you your trust
battery is not full yet for most of the
people some people you know it's a known
thing but most people you don't know
these people there are strangers or
there they're connected to a friend of a
friend those types of things during that
first 90 days do 30 day check-ins and
you're assessing whether or not they
still think it's a good fit right so put
yourself in the employee shoes is this
still a really good fit and and the
manager shoes is this still really good
fit and the way that you can do that is
a simple thing around agreements so we
talked a lot about setting expectations
like you've I've you guys have all said
that I bet you said that in the past
week like let's set expectations don't
set expectations set agreements get
agreements with people you have an
agreement that this is the job that we
need you to do not my expectations
because expectations are usually
one-sided you know it's what you think
right an agreement is that contract
between you and the employee and it
doesn't have to be cold-hearted or
anything it's just simple you know like
as an example when you when you hire a
contractor to put a roof on your house
do you that do you sign an expectation
document no you sign agreements and the
same is true with with employees and
trying to try not to make as many
assumptions okay so when it comes to to
firing one of the mistakes that I think
we all make is we get really emotional
it's hard not to especially when you're
upset and it's usually you're upset with
yourself that you made this mistake of
hiring this person and you know it but
you don't want to admit it and you just
want to get them out of here as soon as
possible and so you'll you end up going
emotional and passive-aggressive and
it's just messy and then lawsuit SAP and
then you're signing that for logical and
that's bad ah but we will take your
money so you know the one thing I will
say with with firing and these calling
balls stack together right like if
you've done a good job of hiring and
you've got a good funnel in place and
you've got an agreement it's not just
this one side of expectation that the
other person doesn't really know about
and letting somebody go shouldn't be
complicated and it shouldn't be an
unknown like this out of the
I shouldn't wake up like wait a minute
I'm fired why am I fired what I do it's
like whoa you didn't own up to our
agreements to be simple but I would say
just be compassionate like again these
people they took a risk on you you were
excited about them on day one you know
you might have posted on Facebook or
LinkedIn got pictures together you spent
time together and obviously some things
are outside the normal lives as if that
they committed something illegal or
violated your your code of conduct in
some way that's a separate thing but
more often than not that's not the case
just be compassionate with these people
and try and remove the emotion as much
as possible and then lastly related to
the 90 days and 900 pay them to leave
make it easy and make it rich that next
yeah if you're not happy the fit within
the 90 days trust me I'm heading next
900 days we're not going to get any
happier so if you think about that and
the the just the time value of money are
just the value of your time it's very
expensive this is time you're never ever
going to get back and do you really want
to continue working with this person
just pay them we have this mutual
agreement or we will pay somebody
roughly a whole month of their salary to
go and it makes it easy for them to walk
away now your goal is to make it so that
net never happens right so that you
never have somebody take you up on that
offer when we're recruiting people at
the very beginning right after that
survey we talked to them about this so
that they understand what what it's like
to work here it's like hey if you don't
think it's a good fit no big deal you
can just take you can take the money and
go and it very rarely happens and our
goal is to get it to zero but paying
them to leave is actually a lot cheaper
than keeping them on this is especially
true for sales people because sales
people especially in the SAS world if
you have a compounded revenue model if
they are missing their number you are
going to miss an incredible amount of
compounding revenue and you want to get
them out as fast as possible okay
let's talk about an advisor this is a
it's kind of like a black art like
there's not a lot of at least that I've
seen a lot of good content or talks
about how to build an advisory
like how do you do this stuff and man if
you do this early on it's similar sass
at all compounds it's pretty incredible
so and I wish I had done this early on I
did not and it's a mistake but I've now
rectified that yeah and what I've done
and I think you guys would find this
really helpful is you find it the best
advisor for each functional role right
because you are not going to be good
graded everything like a CEOs you're
doing everything taking out the trash
you know picking up the trash in the
hallways you name it you're basically
just a trash man and so and you're not
an amazing sales either or a marketing
later a product like there's somebody
out there that's better than you go find
them and hook them up with your
functional leader each one and so how do
you do that similar to how you would get
introduced to a venture capitalist you
can cold email them go ahead do that or
you can get introduced to them by
somebody else right that they're
connected to that's what I've done I've
reached out you just use LinkedIn is
pretty simple
and get introduced to people that you
think would be a really great value add
and you're gonna want to look for people
that are maybe a stage or two beyond
where you want to go right you know
maybe two years being on three years
being on something like that I've gotten
people like Jeff Diana who's former
chief people officer Atlassian to help
out with our our HR team mercy grace she
ran she was the original product manager
at slack to help our product team Dan
Fujairah chief revenue officer at data
dawg which is an amazing company to help
out with sales and I I got introduced to
them right and you guys can do the exact
same thing so how do you pay them and
what do you ask of them one hour of
their time a month will go a long way
and you schedule this in advance because
they're busy people just like you guys
but you ask for one hour a month for one
year that's a typical advisory agreement
and and how much do you pay them well
want to actually give them any money an
advisor that asks for money is probably
not an advisor you want on your team
because an advisor is trying to help you
grow the business right they're trying
to expand that share price and if you
pay them cash out of the balance sheet
it's actually decreasing it and it's a
small amount but it's it's
counterproductive so you want to give
them equity options in your company well
how do you do that
the way that I've structured is real
simple what would I pay this person as a
consultant you know if I were to meet
them at a party and say hey I really
have this problem can you help me to do
this how much would I pay them now of
course this will vary but a good rule of
thumb is $1,000 an hour that's how much
I would pay somebody for their time and
so you're thinking okay that's 12 hours
out of the year if you if you commit to
that well just to divide that that's
12,000 dollars divided by what your last
par value is or preferred prices and
boom there's your options that's it and
they vests you know within the year and
you can renew it every year I've had
advisors that have been with the company
now for three years and I refresh their
grants every year and I have calls with
them every month pre-scheduled it's
amazing and you also get introduced to
their networks so your networks just get
stronger and stronger and stronger if
you're not doing this today I highly
highly recommend you start doing it okay
let's switch gears and talk about
culture okay so as the saying goes
culture eats strategy for breakfast
lunch and dinner right but if if you
have no strategy your culture will stop
so if you think about it you should
probably start with strategy first and
then build the right culture to execute
on that strategy it's a non obvious
thing but it actually makes a lot of
sense and it's true that if you do have
a strong culture you can crush that
strategy but you got to think of it
think about it in reverse and the one
way to do this is around core values so
I've talked with a lot of CEOs and and
executives amazing companies and if you
ask them about how they make decisions
oftentimes they will they will
a core value this just happened to me 30
minutes ago
when I was talking with Doug song who is
the CEO of duo security now we recently
brought on a board director that was his
president and CEO we were talking about
that and he mentioned one of they say
his core values which I might end up
adopting is I really like it is engineer
the business that's amazing I had dinner
once with John Chambers at Cisco and I
asked him like why didn't you buy this
company and why did you buy this company
and every question he just kept coming
back with was core values that company
didn't align with our core values he's
from West Virginia has a super West
Virginia accent which I can't do clearly
but core values are really important and
there's a right way to do them in a
wrong way this is my opinion and I think
you got it you have to choose core
values that are true to you and you're
not just going to come up with them in a
room with with two people if you've got
more people in the company you should
involve everybody and they have to be
true they can't just be some something
stolen off of a website somewhere they
have to be something about your company
and I suggest you choose roughly five
and the only reason for that is it's
hard to remember more than five you know
and we're all smart people but like five
five seems about right we have four
start with the why pursue powerful
simplicity put the customer first and do
the right thing how they recommend if
you don't have do the right thing and
you are a tech company maybe you should
think about that especially as we get
more and more data as you've been seeing
about Facebook and Google these days
it'd be great if they had those values
the third thing I'll say about core
values is make them actionable when you
make them actionable they can become
part of your whole core operating system
so we intentionally put start persue
excetera and we didn't always have poor
values and it was a nightmare we didn't
hire the right people because we didn't
have this operating system we didn't
make the right decisions because we
didn't have this operating system and
this just makes life a little bit easier
and core values and behaviors are
different
I think this often gets confusing right
like they don't map with our core value
as well but the core values are the way
that you make decisions
behaviors of what you expect of each
other we created our behaviors based off
of my my co-founder reaction made his
name into I'm sitting right there made
his name into a an acronym smart his
name is Shen smart and and not arrogant
humble and hardworking entrepreneurial
and not risk-averse nice and not a
pushover and grit and lots of it so
those are the behaviors that we expect
within the company and they're honest
this that's what represents our company
and so when you do this right you can
use them for everything you know those
culture surveys that I mentioned earlier
those map to core values and behaviors
same thing same thing with firing like
I've fired people that violated our core
values and behaviors it's you can't
tolerate that right you want what you
want is people in that top right corner
of aptitude and attitude like that's an
outstanding employee somebody that best
represents the values and the behaviors
that that you pride okay so more on
culturing talk about communication
communication and culture really
important especially as you start to
scale and you get into the the phone
game where it's really hard to
understand what's actually going on
connected to this is meeting cadence I
wish I had thought about this more early
on and I didn't and you get into a
meeting culture and meeting cultures
suck most of you guys probably escape
some company
that had some horrible meeting culture
where it's like we got to create a
meeting to talk about this thing can't
that just be an email more often love it
is I'm guessing 90% of corporate
meetings should be in some sort of email
at least oh you know the big companies
so the way to think through this is to
to productize your meeting structure and
think about your meeting structure
throughout the year like what is a
logical cadence think about the meetings
that you should have on annual basis a
quarterly basis a monthly basis and a
weekly basis and then design the rules
around those meetings right like one
simple rule that will save your
employees any norm
amount of time is and you would have to
live by this is if somebody calls a
meeting and doesn't put an agenda
together no meeting don't do it that's a
waste of time make sure that they put
their their thoughts down on paper you
will save people a ton of time this is a
fun hack to do is you scale so this
probably is relevant to you after maybe
350 employees somewhere around there so
you know you probably do All Hands you
probably do like team meetups those
types of things you know learning via
all hands is is helpful but asynchronous
learning is also helpful this is a
really great hack so all of your
functional leaders have them do a
newsletter every week every Friday and a
strut simple structure they can go super
long if they want or super short you
probably all have goals that you're
doing you know monthly or quarterly or
even weekly if you're super early stage
and but have them list out their goals
like how the progress is going what the
highlights were that week what the
lowlights were and what the learnings
super easy right and put it into a
google group and that way your employees
and your future employees can just
subscribe to it if they want to learn
about what's happening in the product
org or engineering or sales or marketing
they just subscribe to it you have to
spam everybody pretty simple another fun
hack that I found to be super helpful is
notes from the road so if you're
visiting customers highly recommend you
do it's where you get to see the future
and have people send out the notes from
the road on what they learned from the
customer you know key quotes that were
said what they liked about the product
what they didn't like what they might
have learned about the competitors and
have that go out to the whole company
people loved it and then lastly this is
for the CEOs in the room this requires a
lot of discipline but every Monday at 8
o'clock in the morning email goes out to
you to all of your employees why do this
it's a good for you to keep in touch
with what's going on in the company and
for the employees to hear your voice you
can control your messaging this way that
way people don't take things out of
context because
you are literally putting things into
context it's really easy email email is
great and it's it's pretty simple to do
I write mine on Sunday it takes me about
an hour or two and I use those Friday
updates to learn what's going on you
know what are the little projects that I
wasn't aware of so that I can highlight
that and some people see like okay like
CEO is actually watching this it's a
really good way to build positive
culture so lastly let's talk about your
why so SAS is a business model and
unless you're Jason limpkin it is not
your mission and and you know the
business model is pretty well baked
right and then everything else is is I
think pretty pretty unique to the
companies that are scaling like why
haven't I talked a lot about 0 to 19
because that's my story like I can't
tell you all the different things around
that it's probably not applicable to you
so hopefully this is applicable to you
the other thing that's related to this
is I think we often forget this software
as a service not as a subscription of
course we all want subscription revenue
who doesn't want a compounded asset like
that and that's an amazing thing but
maybe your customers don't want that I
would guess a lot of you in this room
are trying to disrupt some part of the
10 trillion dollar u.s. services market
with a software solution well guess what
they don't buy software often for
services take my example I'm in the
legal space legal is a ten billion
dollar market in United States or sorry
it's a foreign 50 billion dollar market
my segment is about ten billion dollars
and they're not used to buying software
they're used to buying services so you
might actually need to start there you
know sell them a way that they want to
buy it back to what I start in the
beginning and then lastly you know you
guys again you all came up with these
ideas for very good reasons you know
what is it that you're trying to do what
what are you trying to disrupt what is
the mission what is your reason for
existing put that ahead of the business
model every time and finally sell the
way your customers want to buy just ask
them don't copy the competitors maybe
they're not doing it right
go ask your customers what do
like about the way that we're selling
the product so it's a pretty obvious
question to ask but sometimes we naively
think that that's what they want just
ask them and when you do that something
like this could happen we weren't doing
that for a long time and the second that
we said hey how will you how would you
like to buy this software holy moly
we went from a hundred customers and
what and starting in March of 2017 and
that took us three years to do to 600
customers in December of that same year
and then last year we added another 740
customers and it's just taken off like a
rocket ship and I firmly believe if you
follow these basic this basic structure
of selling the selling the way your
customer wants to buy I think you can do
the exact same thing thank you